
SERIALIZAZING :
#include <nlohmann/json.hpp>
NLOHMANN_DEFINE_TYPE_INTRUSIVE(Person, name, age, height)



Step 1: Project Setup & Core Engine Architecture
At the start, focus on setting up the basic structure of the project, defining the primary game loop, and handling window creation.

Tasks:
Set up your project structure (source files, assets, build system, etc.).
Create a simple game loop: Initialization, update, render, and clean-up.
Define core engine classes: Engine, Game, Window, Time, and Input.
Initialize the window and set up basic event handling (input and window resizing).
Deliverables:
A basic project where a window is created, and the engine enters a main loop that updates and renders frames.


Step 2: Basic Rendering Pipeline
Once the project is structured and you have a basic game loop, the next step is to implement the rendering system.

Tasks:
Set up a renderer class to abstract drawing operations.
Implement basic 2D rendering: drawing shapes, images, and text.
Implement a basic sprite system to load and draw textures from files.
Support frame buffer clearing and basic drawing operations (e.g., drawImage(), drawRect()).
Deliverables:
A system capable of drawing basic 2D assets (like sprites and simple shapes) to the screen.


Step 3: Scene Management
The scene management system will allow you to organize your game into separate "scenes," such as menus, levels, and game over screens.

Tasks:
Create a Scene class to hold game objects, layers, and other scene-specific data.
Implement a SceneManager to manage switching between scenes.
Implement scene transitions (e.g., fade in/out, or just instant transitions).
Introduce a GameObject system that holds entities like characters, enemies, and other interactive objects.
Deliverables:
A scene management system that allows you to load, update, and render different game scenes.
A GameObject class to represent entities in the scene.


Step 4: Layering and Z-Ordering
Games typically require multiple layers of rendering (background, characters, UI, etc.). Handling layering will help control how objects are drawn in the correct order.

Tasks:
Implement a layer system to manage different object types (e.g., background, entities, UI).
Introduce Z-ordering: Ensure objects are drawn in the correct order relative to their layer.
Modify the scene and renderer to support layering (draw the background first, then characters, then UI).
Deliverables:
A system that renders objects in multiple layers, ensuring correct depth sorting.


Step 5: Input System
Input handling is crucial for any interactive game. You need to process input from the user and propagate it to the appropriate objects.

Tasks:
Implement an input system to handle keyboard and mouse input.
Support for basic input actions (e.g., key presses, mouse clicks, and movement).
Integrate input handling into the main game loop.
Optionally, support for custom input bindings (e.g., defining "jump" to a specific key).
Deliverables:
A working input system that allows players to interact with the game via keyboard and mouse.


Step 6: Sprite System & Animation
Your game will need an efficient system for displaying and animating characters, objects, and other elements.

Tasks:
Create a Sprite class to represent a 2D image, including position, rotation, and scaling.
Implement an Animation system to manage sprite sheets and frame-based animation.
Allow switching between different animation states (e.g., idle, walk, jump).
Implement basic sprite batching for efficient rendering (draw multiple sprites in one call).
Deliverables:
A sprite system capable of rendering individual images and handling basic sprite animations.


Step 7: Tilemap System
If your game uses grid-based worlds (like platformers or RPGs), you'll need a tilemap system to handle large game worlds efficiently.

Tasks:
Define a Tile class to represent individual tiles in a tilemap.
Create a Tilemap class to manage and render a grid of tiles.
Implement the ability to layer tilemaps (e.g., background, objects, etc.).
Handle basic tile collisions (optional, if your game needs this functionality).
Deliverables:
A tilemap system that renders large levels using a grid of tiles.


Step 8: Asset Management & Serialization
Efficient management and loading of assets (textures, sounds, fonts) is essential for any game. Serialization will help you save and load game data (e.g., saving/loading game states, scene data).

Tasks:
Implement an AssetManager class to load, store, and manage textures, sounds, and other assets.
Support for loading and caching assets efficiently to avoid reloading them every frame.
Implement a basic serialization system (e.g., saving/loading level data, player progress).
Use file formats like JSON, XML, or binary for storing game data.
Deliverables:
A working asset management system that efficiently loads and caches assets.
A basic serialization system to save and load game state.


Step 9: UI System
Building a UI system is essential for menus, HUDs, and other in-game interfaces. This system allows you to create interactive elements such as buttons, sliders, and text fields.

Tasks:
Implement a basic UI framework with elements like buttons, labels, and sliders.
Support for layout management (e.g., absolute positioning, anchors, or grids).
Handle mouse and keyboard events for UI interactions (e.g., clicking buttons).
Render the UI on top of the game scene, ensuring correct layering.
Deliverables:
A UI system that allows you to create and interact with menus and HUDs.


Step 10: Sound and Music System
Adding sound effects and music is key to making your game more immersive. This step involves setting up an audio system for playback.

Tasks:
Implement an audio manager to load and play sound effects and background music.
Support for different sound formats (e.g., WAV, MP3).
Implement a simple volume control and sound looping.
Optional: Add spatial audio (3D positioning of sound sources) if your game requires it.
Deliverables:
A sound system capable of playing background music and sound effects.


Step 11: Physics and Collision Detection
If your game requires object interaction (e.g., platformers, top-down shooters), you'll need a basic physics and collision system.

Tasks:
Implement basic 2D collision detection (e.g., AABB, circle collisions).
Optionally, implement physics for movement (e.g., gravity, velocity).
Integrate collision detection into the GameObject system (e.g., detect collisions between sprites and tiles).
Handle collision responses (e.g., bounce, stop, or push objects).
Deliverables:
A working collision system with basic physics handling.


Step 12: Game Editor (Optional)
Building a game editor allows you to design levels and tweak game settings without writing code. This step is optional but highly recommended for ease of use.

Tasks:
Create a GUI for managing scenes, assets, and game objects (e.g., drag-and-drop interface).
Integrate your editor with the engine so you can manipulate game objects and tilemaps.
Implement a scene editor that allows you to place and move objects visually.
Deliverables:
A basic game editor that allows you to visually design levels, place objects, and edit game scenes.


Step 13: Optimization and Refinement
Once the core features are in place, it’s time to optimize performance and refine the engine.

Tasks:
Optimize rendering by batching draw calls, reducing state changes, and improving the asset loading system.
Profile performance and identify bottlenecks (e.g., in the physics system, input handling, or rendering).
Improve memory management and garbage collection (e.g., object pooling).
Add features like frame-rate independent movement and resolution scaling.
Deliverables:
A polished engine that runs smoothly and is efficient.


Step 14: Packaging and Distribution
Finally, you'll want to package your game engine for use by others or for deployment.

Tasks:
Create a build system (e.g., CMake) for compiling the engine and games.
Package the engine with necessary libraries (e.g., asset management, external libraries).
Ensure cross-platform support (if needed) and build for various operating systems (Windows, macOS, Linux).
Write documentation on how to use the engine and its features.
Deliverables:
A final build of the engine, ready for distribution or further development.




1. Serialization System
Purpose: Save and load game states, entities, levels, and other configurations.
Implementation Ideas:
Use JSON, XML, or binary formats for data persistence.
Serialize and deserialize game objects, entity properties, scene information, and assets (e.g., textures, sounds).
Implement versioning for backward compatibility when the game data format evolves.
Provide a system for saving/loading player progress, configuration settings, and procedural content.
Optionally include encryption for secure data storage.
2. GUI Editor
Purpose: Visual editor to help designers build UI layouts.
Implementation Ideas:
WYSIWYG (What You See Is What You Get) editor for drag-and-drop UI components.
Components like buttons, labels, images, sliders, and input fields.
Ability to change properties like color, font, position, size, and event bindings.
Support for event-driven scripting, such as click events or drag actions.
Support for saving UI layouts as JSON or XML files to be loaded at runtime.
An automatic layout system (flexbox/grid) for responsive UI design.
3. Entity Manager
Purpose: Manage game entities, their components, and interactions.
Implementation Ideas:
ECS (Entity-Component-System) design pattern for flexibility and performance.
Entities can be composed of various components (e.g., Transform, Sprite, Physics, AI).
Support for entity pooling to optimize performance (i.e., reuse entities rather than constantly creating/destroying them).
Event system for communication between entities (e.g., trigger events, collisions).
Hierarchical entities to handle parent-child relationships (for complex objects like characters or vehicles).
4. Particle System
Purpose: Create visually interesting effects like explosions, fire, smoke, and rain.
Implementation Ideas:
Define particle emitters that spawn particles over time with random or predefined behavior.
Implement various particle behaviors (e.g., gravity, wind, color fading, size changes).
Particle pooling for performance optimization (reusing particles instead of creating/destroying them frequently).
Support for animated sprites or shaders for particle rendering.
Implement particle systems that can be triggered by events (e.g., character death, explosions).
5. Movement Strategies
Purpose: Handle movement logic for characters and objects.
Implementation Ideas:
Finite State Machine (FSM) for controlling movement (e.g., idle, walking, running, jumping).
Implement common movement types like velocity-based movement, acceleration, pathfinding (A*), and custom movement (e.g., gravity, friction).
Separate movement input handling (keyboard, mouse, gamepad) and movement logic (handling collisions, speed, and physics).
Movement constraints (e.g., limiting movement to specific axes, preventing movement through walls).
Camera movement, including smooth following and viewport restrictions.
6. AI (Artificial Intelligence)
Purpose: Provide intelligent behaviors for non-playable characters (NPCs).
Implementation Ideas:
Finite State Machines (FSMs) for NPC behaviors (patrolling, chasing, fleeing).
Pathfinding algorithms (e.g., A* or Dijkstra’s) for navigating 2D maps.
Behavior trees for more complex decision-making (used in strategy or action games).
Vision and sensing systems (e.g., line-of-sight checks, sound detection).
Steering behaviors like flocking, seeking, wandering, and avoiding obstacles.
Implement difficulty scaling based on player progress or other factors.
7. Scheduler
Purpose: Manage timed events or tasks (e.g., NPC actions, timed abilities, animations).
Implementation Ideas:
Use a global event loop to handle recurring or one-time tasks.
Allow tasks to be scheduled with specific delays or intervals.
Manage time-based animations (e.g., transition between character states based on time).
Event-driven system for managing periodic updates or time-sensitive events.
Priority system for managing which events are executed first.
8. Scene Management
Purpose: Manage levels, environments, and game states.
Implementation Ideas:
Define scenes (e.g., main menu, game level, pause screen).
Scene graph for organizing entities in the scene.
Support for multiple scene layers (background, foreground, UI).
Ability to dynamically load and unload scenes to save memory (e.g., level transitions).
Support for background music, sound effects, and ambient conditions tied to specific scenes.
Scene transition effects (fade in/out, wipe, zoom, etc.).
9. Z-Layering / Layer Management
Purpose: Organize how objects are drawn relative to one another, including layering and depth sorting.
Implementation Ideas:
Layer system for handling various types of entities (e.g., background, characters, foreground, UI).
Sorting mechanism based on entity Z-coordinates or depth (e.g., higher Z means drawn on top).
Support for both static and dynamic layers (e.g., static background vs. moving characters).
Option for parallax scrolling (moving different layers at different speeds).
Dynamic Z-order adjustments based on game state (e.g., enemies moving in front of the player).
10. Input System
Purpose: Handle user input from keyboard, mouse, and gamepad.
Implementation Ideas:
Map input events to actions (e.g., jump, shoot, open inventory).
Support for customizable input bindings.
Input buffering for smooth action transitions (e.g., double-tap to dodge).
Input event system (e.g., key down, key up, mouse click, mouse movement).
Support for both touch and mouse input for mobile games.
11. Sound System
Purpose: Handle game audio, including background music, sound effects, and voice acting.
Implementation Ideas:
Audio playback (stereo/3D sound) for background music and sound effects.
Background music management (looping, crossfade, volume control).
Event-based sound effects (e.g., footsteps, gunfire, ambient sounds).
Support for sound mixing and sound channels (e.g., adjusting the volume of different sound categories).
Spatial audio (positioned sounds that change based on the listener's position in the game world).
12. Networking (Optional)
Purpose: Add multiplayer or online functionality.
Implementation Ideas:
Support for basic client-server architecture.
Syncing of entities and actions between players.
Lag compensation and prediction techniques for real-time games.
Matchmaking or lobby systems.
Cross-platform play (optional).
13. Scripting and Modding Support
Purpose: Allow game developers to extend and customize the engine.
Implementation Ideas:
Implement a scripting language (e.g., Lua, Python, or custom scripting language) for game logic.
Expose engine APIs to the scripting system for interacting with game objects, scenes, and events.
Provide modding support by allowing users to import their own assets, scripts, or even modify core game logic.
14. Debugging and Profiling Tools
Purpose: Enhance the development process with debugging and performance analysis tools.
Implementation Ideas:
Visual Debugging: Show bounding boxes, paths, AI states, and collision zones.
Performance Profiling: Track frame rate, memory usage, entity count, and time spent in various subsystems.
Logging: Implement a robust logging system with different log levels (info, warning, error).
Hot Reloading: Allow developers to modify assets or scripts in real time without restarting the game.
15. Customizable Materials / Shaders
Purpose: Offer graphical effects, special rendering, and customization.
Implementation Ideas:
A simple shader language for 2D effects (e.g., lighting, color correction, outline effects).
Material system that supports sprite-based or tile-based games with texture swapping.
Post-processing effects (e.g., bloom, blur, pixelation, etc.).
Dynamic lighting and shadow support.